# IGSC2021_Piloting_Digital_Notebooks_LoS_MSA
This digital book introduces a novel method to allow students and faculty in the Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (HASS) to collaborate and interact through data analytic technologies using computational notebooks collated as digital books. We demonstrate this approach using a digitally archived Legacy of Slavery (LoS) dataset from the Maryland State Archives (MSA) and illustrate the socio-technical challenges faced in establishing this learning environment. We provide a step-by-step process involved in accessing, developing, and integrating different infrastructure elements. The LoS in Maryland is a major initiative of the MSA. The program seeks to preserve and promote the vast universe of experiences that have shaped the lives of Maryland’s African American population. Over the last 18 years, some 420,000 individuals have been identified, and data assembled into 16 major databases. These databases contain information unique to enslaved people’s lives such as manumission records, certificates of freedom, census data, penitentiary records, etc. One of the primary objectives is to enable the digital representation of these culturally rich and sensitive collections ready to be analyzed and studied through contemporary scholars’ lenses. This project aims to achieve this goal by making these databases available and accessible so that users can generate individual stories, glean insights, and possibly recover “erased” memories of the enslaved people. To achieve this goal, as a first step, individual dataset collections were prepared by downloading the databases and put through rigorous exploration, cleaning, and visualization process through coordination with interdisciplinary scholars composed of archivists, historians, computer scientists, and technology analysts.
